
 
<style>
    html {
        background-color: #faf0ca;
    }
    #body {
        padding:1em;
        font-size:1.1em;
        line-height:1.5em;
        font-family:'Spot Mono', 'Futura';
        font-weight:600;
    }
    P {
        padding: 1em;
        font-size: 1.2em;
    }
    ul {
        color:#9a031e;
    }
    dd {
        color:#9a031e;
    }
    dt {
        list-style-type:square;
        color:teal;
    }
    p {
        /* font-weight:800; */
        color:#b87216;
    }
    .heading2, b {
        color:#0d3b66;
    }
</style>

<div id="body" style="color:#0d3b66">

# <span style="color:#654fa8;"> CompooterGenie </span>

---

## <span style="color:#1b998b;">Description</span> 
<p>The Computer Genie is an AI based chat bot that is aiming at both entertainment, as well as being a
useful tool for a multitude of Computer Science related topics.</p>

<p>The Compooter Genie's original/current personality is based on a simple living, Appalachian ...
Genie... That happens to know about computers ok I know how it sounds, just ask him about it ok.</p>

---

## <span style="color:#1b998b;"> Current Slash Commands </span>
>/ping (string prompt) 

- reply with a message containing the response time.

---    

#### <span style="color:#654fa8">SlashCommand Ideas/Suggestions</span>
this suggestion sections purpose is aimed more at populating the TODO list. This will alloow more focus on the current task as well as helping us develop and re-visit new ones.

If a contributor has an idea for a command, it is reasonable for that developer to go ahead and start work one their command as they wish. 
When a command is ready for implementation, please open a Pull Request and include me as the reviewer. 

<!-- ============== SUGGEST COMMANDS HERE ============ -->

>/3wishes or /wishes

- this will allow a short volley of prompt and responses. will remember what has been said for a round of three back and forth volleys, or "wishes".

---

## <span style="color:#1b998b;">TODO's</span>
<ins>Complete</ins>

- [x] &nbsp; Entry Point (Program.cs)
- [x] &nbsp; InteractionService class.
- [x] &nbsp; InteractionModule w/ ping command 
- [x] make slash command `/question` into actual slash command.<br />

<ins>In-Progress</ins>

- [ ] slash command idea's, list, then curate.<br />
- [ ] standalone app + Developers ui
- [ ] pick and choose personality (buildabear)

<ins>Not Started</ins>

---

## <span style="color:#1b998b">Contributing</span>
The flow for submitting a contribution is as follows:
<sub>as generated by chat-gpt</sub>

<ul style="list-style:disc;">
<li>Fork the project to your own GitHub account. This creates a copy of the project that you can work on.</li>

<li>Clone the project to your local machine using the Git command-line tool or a Git client like GitHub Desktop.</li>

<li>Make the changes you want to contribute to the project, committing them to your local repository as you go.</li>

<li>Push your changes to your fork on GitHub.</li>

<li>Go to the original project on GitHub and create a pull request. This is a request to the maintainers of the project to review your changes and potentially merge them into the main project.</li>

<li>The maintainers of the project will review your pull request and may ask for changes or comments. Once the maintainers are satisfied with the changes, they will merge the pull request, incorporating your changes into the main project. 
</li>
</ul>
## <span style="color:#1b998b;">Running the Bot</span>

<ins>Authorization URL:</ins>

<span style="color:darkorange;font-size:.9em;">
discord.com/oauth2/authorize?client_id=YOUR_CLIENT_ID&scope=bot&permissions=PERMISSION_INTIGER
</a>

note: 
<div style="line-height:1em;">
>This project is using the C-Sharp library Discord.NET. Whithin this context, we use the Interaction Framework. This means that when looking through the documentation, you should be using the examples that create commands with an attribute and should not be using the command builder.</div>
<br />
<ins>During development</ins>
<ul style="list-style-type:square;">

<li>you will need to run the bot in `your own` test `Discord Server`.</li> 

<li>`Commands` are registered as `guild commands` while running in `debug mode` (<small style="color:seagreen">see InteractionHandler.ReadyAsync()</small>). Global commands will take an hour to update on discord every time you run the ReadyAsync Method which registers.</li>

<li>accessing your application will be done through the Discord developers portal. This bot will `not` require a `OAUTH2 code grant`, so inside the developers portal, under the `Bot` tab, make sure the `code grant` and `public bot` options are both `unchecked`.</li>

<li>You will need to make sure that at least the Message Content Intent option is selected.</li>

<li>When you create your bot, you can use the `OAUTH tab` to give your bot permissions and `authorize scopes`. From the scopes options,select at least `bot`, and `applications.commands`.</li>

<li> When you select bot, a second set of options will appear that say `Bot Permissions`. in there you will want to select the specific permissions you want, but my suggestion would be at least to allow it to Read `Messages/View Messages`, `Send Message` and `Use Slash Commands`. You will likely want more.</li>

<li>at this point, there should be a `generated URL` at the very bottom of the page. Copy this URL and enter it into your browser. follow the steps to invite your bot to your server.</li>

<li> Open AI is a bit simpler. It only requires you to sign up for an account and get an api key from their website.</li>
</ul>


#### <span style="color:#1b998b;">appsettings.json</span>
<p>Inside the project, you wil find a file title `appsettingsExample.json`. This file needs to be updated with the following fields:</p>
<p style="width:40vw;margin:auto;">
> <small>these will all be located under the Settings Label. Therefore whenever trying to retrieve these variables, you should precede the key with "Settings:" followed by the hierarchical label that corresponds to the variable.</small></p>

<dl>
<dt><ins>temperature</ins></dt>
<dd>temperature can be thought of as the randomness, or variety control for the AI model.</dd>
<dt><ins>maxTokens</ins></dt>
<dd>this controls the length of the AI response, thus also controlling the price per answer. A prompt is broken down into tokens, which can be thought of as parts of words.</dd>
<dt><ins>frequencyPenalty</ins></dt>
<dd>penalizes the AI for repeated tokens.</dd>
<dt><ins>topP</ins></dt>
<dd> determines the proportion of the mass of the probability distribution that the model should consider when making this selection.
<br /><p style="color:#2ea4d6;font-size:17px;width:60vw;margin:auto;">for example, if the top_p value is set to 0.9, the model will only consider the tokens that have a probability of at least 0.9 of being the next token in the sequence.</p></dd>
<dt><ins>presencePenalty</ins></dt>
<dd>The presence_penalty parameter is used to control the balance between novelty and coherence in the text generated by the model. It does this by penalizing the model for generating tokens that do not appear in the input text. By increasing the value of the presence_penalty, you can encourage the model to generate text that is more similar to the input text, while decreasing the value can encourage the model to be more creative and generate novel text.
</dl>
<dt><ins>frequencyPenalty</ins></dt>
<dd>The scale of the penalty for how often a token is used.  Should generally be between 0 and 1, although negative numbers are allowed to encourage token reuse.</dd>
